Factors influencing the shape of the peaks. 

Before further discussing the various attempts of measuring the shape of the oxygen absorption peaks, we had to 
consider other factors that have a big influence on the resulting shape of the peaks in all the measuements we did.

-Mode hopping: mode hopping is the factor which most distorts the shape of the measured peaks, allowing us to see
only one part of the peaks. As we discussed in the Tunability range section we indeed have a small linear range of 
tunability that we can use to scan the absorption peak, after that the laser would jump in another mode and the 
photoacoustic resonance would die a painful death. Luckily we were able to log the wavelenght of the peak measured with the spectrometer and 
calculated by the avaspec software in real time (with a response time of less than 1/10th of second)
and thus we were able todetect the parts of the peaks which really corresponded to the absorption peak shape and the parts afected by mode-hopping.

-Multimodes: the ECDL didn't always emit light on a single wavelenght, but often it would emit in 2 or 3 or rarely on 4 
different wavelenghts at the same time. One or more of these emission could correspond to one of the oxygen absorption 
lines, corresponding in a measurable photoacoustic effect. The problem in this situation consisted in the fact that 
the relative intensity of the various wavelenght emitted was not constant even while inside the "tunability range", therefore 
the shape of the peak in such situation could be distorted by the change of intensity. To make things worse our apparatus could
log/register only the wavelenght and intensity of the strongest emitted peak, even when the laser was not emitting in a single mode. 
This made very difficoult to distinguish between single-mode and multi-mode emissions just watching at the recorded data. 
Indeed the only way we had to suppose a multi-modal emission by looking at the recorded data was looking for
	-very fast jumps between two wavelenghts which are "competing" in being the highest one.
	-decreases in the main peak intensity or in the intensity-peak integral ratio. (difficoult because these two parameters are quite noisy).
The best way to detect multi-modal emissions was checking the ethalon interference pattern during the measurements, and changing the laser parameters in
order to avoid multimodal emissions which contained absorption wavelenghts.

GRAFO: multimode.eps
caption: In this graphic we can see two different absorption peaks, both of them during a multimodal laser emission. Indeed the first peak corresponds to a 
wavelenght of 687,40 nm but suddelny jumps to a wavelenght of 686,65 nm , while the second corresponds to an absorption wavelenght of 687.30 nm but 
jumps back and forth several times between to the frequency of 687.05. This most likely means that the laser is emitting in at least two different modes at the same
time and while initially one of the two is the strongest, after a bit the other becomes higher and the spectrometer starts indicating it as the main peak. 
In such a situation the shape of the peak is severely deformed by the changes in intensity of the various modes. 
29.10 C 73,23 mA 


-Noise and lock-in low pass filter: the lock-in amplifier we used contained a tunable low pass filter to control the output signals. In order to filter as 
much noise as possible we had to use the highest time-constant as possible, but a long time constant would correspond to a low slew rate which could 
deform the shape of the peaks, expecially when the signal changed abruply during a mode hop or in fast measurements. 
After several attempt we found that a time constant of 1 second gave a quite stable output without requiring us to make exceptionally slow measurements.

-Other factors (such as instability of chopper speed, oxygen pressure and concentration instability, sample rate of our instruments and cable capacitance
should have been not relevant when compared to the first three factors).